LICENSE
MANIFEST.in
README.rst
conftest.py
pyproject.toml
doc/Makefile
doc/bibliography.rst
doc/cli.rst
doc/conf.py
doc/data.rst
doc/develop.rst
doc/distrib.rst
doc/index.rst
doc/install.rst
doc/main.bib
doc/make.bat
doc/messageix-globiom.bib
doc/messageix-globiom.ris
doc/repro.rst
doc/requirements.in
doc/requirements.txt
doc/whatsnew.rst
doc/_static/Availability_BE.png
doc/_static/BiomassSupply.png
doc/_static/CS-PDFs.png
doc/_static/GEA_technology_cost_ranges.png
doc/_static/GLOBIOM_chart_hires.jpg
doc/_static/GLOBIOM_forage_availability.png
doc/_static/GLOBIOM_forage_livestock.png
doc/_static/GLOBIOM_land_cover.png
doc/_static/GLOBIOM_land_use_product_structure.png
doc/_static/GlobalResourceSupplyCurves.png
doc/_static/LanduseEmissions.png
doc/_static/MESSAGE-Access_groups.png
doc/_static/MESSAGE_regions.png
doc/_static/RES_fuel_blending.png
doc/_static/RES_po_turbine.png
doc/_static/S1ThermoCosts.png
doc/_static/S2NonThermoCosts.png
doc/_static/S3OtherCosts.png
doc/_static/Shares_HFC.png
doc/_static/Sources_HFC.png
doc/_static/combined-logo-white.png
doc/_static/combined-logo-white.svg
doc/_static/cooling_implement1.png
doc/_static/cooling_implement2.png
doc/_static/costind-nonthermo.png
doc/_static/costind-other.png
doc/_static/costind-thermo.png
doc/_static/custom.css
doc/_static/diffusion_constraint_example.png
doc/_static/electricity_generation_fossil_nuclear.png
doc/_static/electricity_generation_renewable.png
doc/_static/emulator_CD_Links_SSP2_v2_Global_Cprice_Temp.png
doc/_static/emulator_CD_Links_SSP2_v2_Global_LanduseSurface.png
doc/_static/emulator_CD_Links_SSP2_v2_Global_LanduseSurface_incl_results.png
doc/_static/emulator_ENGAGE_SSP2_v4.1.2_sens_Global_validation_cprice.png
doc/_static/emulator_RES.PNG
doc/_static/emulator_SSP1_Feedback.png
doc/_static/emulator_Scenario_Matrix.png
doc/_static/favicon.svg
doc/_static/global_HFC.png
doc/_static/global_resources_3.1.png
doc/_static/iam_framework-1.png
doc/_static/iiasaiam.png
doc/_static/industry_end-use.png
doc/_static/logo-white.png
doc/_static/logo_blue.png
doc/_static/logo_white.png
doc/_static/map_3.3.png
doc/_static/message-ix-models-logo-white.svg
doc/_static/nuclear_resources.png
doc/_static/ppl_energy_balance.png
doc/_static/regional_HFC_intensity.png
doc/_static/residential-commercial_end-use.png
doc/_static/technology_diffusion_eq_1.png
doc/_static/technology_diffusion_eq_2.png
doc/_static/technology_diffusion_eq_2a.png
doc/_static/technology_diffusion_eq_3.png
doc/_static/technology_diffusion_eq_4.png
doc/_static/technology_diffusion_eq_4a.png
doc/_static/technology_diffusion_eq_4b.png
doc/_static/technology_diffusion_eq_5.png
doc/_static/transport_end-use.png
doc/_static/wind_cv.png
doc/_static/css/custom.css
doc/_static/png_source_files/Land-use_emulator_RES.pptx
doc/_static/png_source_files/Land-use_emulator_figures.ipynb
doc/_static/png_source_files/combined-logo-white.svg
doc/_static/png_source_files/favicon.svg
doc/_static/png_source_files/message_doc-logo-white.svg
doc/_template/autosummary-class.rst
doc/_template/autosummary-module.rst
doc/api/data-sources.rst
doc/api/disutility.rst
doc/api/model-bare.rst
doc/api/model-build.rst
doc/api/model-emissions.rst
doc/api/model-snapshot.rst
doc/api/model-workflow.rst
doc/api/model.rst
doc/api/testing.rst
doc/api/tests.rst
doc/api/tools-costs.rst
doc/api/tools-messagev.rst
doc/api/tools.rst
doc/api/util.rst
doc/api/workflow.rst
doc/api/report/default-config.rst
doc/api/report/index.rst
doc/api/report/legacy.rst
doc/buildings/index.rst
doc/global/.gitignore
doc/global/external_index.rst
doc/global/further-reading.rst
doc/global/glossary.rst
doc/global/index.rst
doc/global/macro.rst
doc/global/z_bibliography.rst
doc/global/_extra/climate_indicators.rst
doc/global/_extra/f_gases.rst
doc/global/_extra/imports_and_exports.rst
doc/global/_extra/index.rst
doc/global/_extra/linkage.rst
doc/global/_extra/resource.rst
doc/global/annex/index.rst
doc/global/climate/index.rst
doc/global/emissions/index.rst
doc/global/emissions/globiom/index.rst
doc/global/emissions/message/index.rst
doc/global/energy/demand.rst
doc/global/energy/fuel_blending.rst
doc/global/energy/index.rst
doc/global/energy/policy.rst
doc/global/energy/tech.rst
doc/global/energy/tech_addon.rst
doc/global/energy/conversion/electricity.rst
doc/global/energy/conversion/grid.rst
doc/global/energy/conversion/heat.rst
doc/global/energy/conversion/index.rst
doc/global/energy/conversion/other.rst
doc/global/energy/enduse/index.rst
doc/global/energy/enduse/industrial.rst
doc/global/energy/enduse/resid_commerc.rst
doc/global/energy/enduse/transport.rst
doc/global/energy/resource/bioenergy.rst
doc/global/energy/resource/fossilfuel.rst
doc/global/energy/resource/index.rst
doc/global/energy/resource/nuclear.rst
doc/global/energy/resource/renewable.rst
doc/global/land_use/crop.rst
doc/global/land_use/emulator.rst
doc/global/land_use/food.rst
doc/global/land_use/forest.rst
doc/global/land_use/index.rst
doc/global/land_use/land.rst
doc/global/land_use/livestock.rst
doc/global/land_use/spatial.rst
doc/global/overview/index.rst
doc/global/overview/spatial.rst
doc/global/overview/temporal.rst
doc/global/overview/policy/index.rst
doc/global/socio_econ/beh_change.rst
doc/global/socio_econ/index.rst
doc/global/socio_econ/narratives.rst
doc/global/socio_econ/pop_GDP.rst
doc/global/water/index.rst
doc/howto/index.rst
doc/howto/migrate.rst
doc/howto/path.rst
doc/howto/quickstart.rst
doc/howto/release.rst
doc/howto/unicc.rst
doc/material/index.rst
doc/material/v1.1.0.rst
doc/material/v1.2.0.rst
doc/pkg-data/codelists.rst
doc/pkg-data/iiasa-se.rst
doc/pkg-data/node.rst
doc/pkg-data/relation.rst
doc/pkg-data/year.rst
doc/project/advance.rst
doc/project/alps.rst
doc/project/carbon-direct.rst
doc/project/cfr.rst
doc/project/circeular.rst
doc/project/digsy.rst
doc/project/ecemf.rst
doc/project/edits.rst
doc/project/elevate.rst
doc/project/engage.rst
doc/project/gea.rst
doc/project/geidco.rst
doc/project/genie.rst
doc/project/guide.rst
doc/project/hyway.rst
doc/project/navigate.rst
doc/project/newpathways.rst
doc/project/nextgen-carbon.rst
doc/project/ngfs.rst
doc/project/prisma.rst
doc/project/scenariomip.rst
doc/project/shape.rst
doc/project/sparccle.rst
doc/project/ssp.rst
doc/project/uptake.rst
doc/transport/disutility.rst
doc/transport/index.rst
doc/transport/input.rst
doc/transport/old.rst
doc/transport/output.rst
doc/water/files.rst
doc/water/index.rst
message_ix_models/__init__.py
message_ix_models/cli.py
message_ix_models/py.typed
message_ix_models/types.py
message_ix_models/workflow.py
message_ix_models.egg-info/PKG-INFO
message_ix_models.egg-info/SOURCES.txt
message_ix_models.egg-info/dependency_links.txt
message_ix_models.egg-info/entry_points.txt
message_ix_models.egg-info/requires.txt
message_ix_models.egg-info/top_level.txt
message_ix_models/data/commodity.yaml
message_ix_models/data/emission.yaml
message_ix_models/data/level.yaml
message_ix_models/data/technology.yaml
message_ix_models/data/unit.yaml
message_ix_models/data/alps/granular-techs_cost_comparison_20170831_revAG_SDS_5year.xlsx
message_ix_models/data/alps/solar_wind_intermittency_20170831_5year.xlsx
message_ix_models/data/alps/useful_level_fuel_potential_contribution_20170907_5year.xlsx
message_ix_models/data/buildings/set.yaml
message_ix_models/data/cd_links/unit.yaml
message_ix_models/data/ceds/ceds_cmip7_Aircraft_intlShipping_byfuel_v_2025_03_18.csv
message_ix_models/data/costs/cooling/tech_map.csv
message_ix_models/data/costs/dac/cost_reduction.csv
message_ix_models/data/costs/dac/scenarios_reduction.csv
message_ix_models/data/costs/dac/tech_map.csv
message_ix_models/data/costs/energy/cost_reduction.csv
message_ix_models/data/costs/energy/scenarios_reduction.csv
message_ix_models/data/costs/energy/tech_map.csv
message_ix_models/data/costs/materials/cost_reduction.csv
message_ix_models/data/costs/materials/scenarios_reduction.csv
message_ix_models/data/costs/materials/tech_map.csv
message_ix_models/data/edits/messageix-transport-core.yaml
message_ix_models/data/edits/messageix-transport-input.yaml
message_ix_models/data/gea/model-scenario.json
message_ix_models/data/iea/WEO_2022_PG_Assumptions_STEPSandNZE_Scenario.xlsb
message_ix_models/data/iea/WEO_2023_PG_Assumptions_STEPSandNZE_Scenario.xlsx
message_ix_models/data/iiasa-se/def-regions.yaml
message_ix_models/data/iiasa-se/mappings-R12.yaml
message_ix_models/data/inter_pipe/.gitignore
message_ix_models/data/inter_pipe/config.yaml
message_ix_models/data/intratec/R11/indices.csv
message_ix_models/data/ipcc/1996_v3_t1-2.csv
message_ix_models/data/material/commodity.yaml
message_ix_models/data/material/set.yaml
message_ix_models/data/material/technology.yaml
message_ix_models/data/navigate/scenarios.yaml
message_ix_models/data/node/ADVANCE.yaml
message_ix_models/data/node/B210-R11.yaml
message_ix_models/data/node/ISR.yaml
message_ix_models/data/node/R11.yaml
message_ix_models/data/node/R12.yaml
message_ix_models/data/node/R14.yaml
message_ix_models/data/node/R17.yaml
message_ix_models/data/node/R20.yaml
message_ix_models/data/node/R32.yaml
message_ix_models/data/node/RCP.yaml
message_ix_models/data/node/ZMB.yaml
message_ix_models/data/relation/A.yaml
message_ix_models/data/relation/B.yaml
message_ix_models/data/relation/CD-LINKS.yaml
message_ix_models/data/report/global.yaml
message_ix_models/data/report/legacy/ENGAGE_SSP2_v417_run_config.yaml
message_ix_models/data/report/legacy/default_aggregates.csv
message_ix_models/data/report/legacy/default_kyoto_hist.csv
message_ix_models/data/report/legacy/default_lu_co2_hist.csv
message_ix_models/data/report/legacy/default_pop_urban_rural.csv
message_ix_models/data/report/legacy/default_run_config.yaml
message_ix_models/data/report/legacy/default_units.yaml
message_ix_models/data/report/legacy/default_variable_definitions.csv
message_ix_models/data/report/legacy/fil_files/AFR-HFC_fac.fil
message_ix_models/data/report/legacy/fil_files/CHN-HFC_fac.fil
message_ix_models/data/report/legacy/fil_files/CPA-HFC_fac.fil
message_ix_models/data/report/legacy/fil_files/EEU-HFC_fac.fil
message_ix_models/data/report/legacy/fil_files/FSU-HFC_fac.fil
message_ix_models/data/report/legacy/fil_files/GLB-HFC_fac.fil
message_ix_models/data/report/legacy/fil_files/LAM-HFC_fac.fil
message_ix_models/data/report/legacy/fil_files/MEA-HFC_fac.fil
message_ix_models/data/report/legacy/fil_files/NAM-HFC_fac.fil
message_ix_models/data/report/legacy/fil_files/PAO-HFC_fac.fil
message_ix_models/data/report/legacy/fil_files/PAS-HFC_fac.fil
message_ix_models/data/report/legacy/fil_files/RCPA-HFC_fac.fil
message_ix_models/data/report/legacy/fil_files/SAS-HFC_fac.fil
message_ix_models/data/report/legacy/fil_files/WEU-HFC_fac.fil
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/ADVANCE.xml
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/ICONICS_SSP(2017).xml
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/ICONICS_SSP(2024).xml
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/IEA_COUNTRY_IEA(2023).xml
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/IEA_COUNTRY_IEA(2024).xml
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/IEA_COUNTRY_OECD(2021).xml
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/IEA_COUNTRY_OECD(2022).xml
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/IEA_COUNTRY_OECD(2023).xml
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/IEA_FLOW_IEA(2023).xml
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/IEA_FLOW_IEA(2024).xml
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/IEA_FLOW_OECD(2021).xml
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/IEA_FLOW_OECD(2022).xml
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/IEA_FLOW_OECD(2023).xml
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/IEA_PRODUCT_IEA(2023).xml
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/IEA_PRODUCT_IEA(2024).xml
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/IEA_PRODUCT_OECD(2021).xml
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/IEA_PRODUCT_OECD(2022).xml
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/IEA_PRODUCT_OECD(2023).xml
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/IIASA_ECE_AGENCIES(0.1).xml
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/IIASA_ECE_CL_TRANSPORT_SCENARIO(1.0.0).xml
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/IIASA_ECE_CL_TRANSPORT_SCENARIO(1.1.0).xml
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/IIASA_ECE_CL_TRANSPORT_SCENARIO(1.2.0).xml
message_ix_models/data/sdmx/transport-in.xml
message_ix_models/data/test/buildings/prices.csv
message_ix_models/data/test/buildings/sturm/report_NAVIGATE_SSP2_comm_R12.csv
message_ix_models/data/test/buildings/sturm/report_NAVIGATE_SSP2_resid_R12.csv
message_ix_models/data/test/edits/pasta.csv
message_ix_models/data/test/macro/kgdp.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/CHN_IND_population.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/CHN_activity-freight.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/CHN_activity-passenger.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/CHN_stock-civil.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/CHN_stock-private.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/GFEI_FE_by_Powertrain_2017.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/act-non_ldv.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/constraint-dynamic.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/demand-scale.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/elasticity-f.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/elasticity-p.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/emi-intensity.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/fuel-emi-intensity.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/iea-2017-t4-1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/iea-2017-t4-2.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/iea-2017-t4-3.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/input-base.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/input-share.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/ldv-age.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/ldv-input-adj.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/ldv-t-share.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/lifetime-ldv.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/load-factor-nonldv.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/set.yaml
message_ix_models/data/transport/speed.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/technology.yaml
message_ix_models/data/transport/R11/config.yaml
message_ix_models/data/transport/R11/disutility.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R11/freight-activity.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R11/freight-mode-share-ref.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R11/ldv-activity.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R11/ldv-class.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R11/ldv-fix_cost.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R11/ldv-fuel-economy.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R11/ldv-inv_cost.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R11/load-factor-ldv.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R11/mer-to-ppp.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R11/pdt-cap-ref.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R11/population-suburb-share.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R11/emi/1-emission_factor.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R11/emi/1-relation_activity.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R11/emi/2-emission_factor.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R11/emi/2-relation_activity.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R11/emi/3-relation_activity.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R11/mode-share/A---.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R11/mode-share/debug.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R11/mode-share/default.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/act-non_ldv.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/config.yaml
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/disutility.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/elasticity-f.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/elasticity-p.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/energy-other with pipeline.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/energy-other.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/freight-activity.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/freight-mode-share-ref.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/ldv-activity.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/ldv-age.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/ldv-class.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/ldv-input-adj.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/ldv-input-ref.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/ldv-inv_cost.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/ldv-new-capacity.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/ldv-t-share.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/lifetime-ldv.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/load-factor-ldv.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/mer-to-ppp.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/pdt-cap-ref.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/population-suburb-share.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/speed.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/mode-share/A---.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/mode-share/debug.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/mode-share/default.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/pdt-cap/DIGSY-BEST.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/pdt-cap/DIGSY-WORST.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/pdt-cap/EDITS-CA.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/pdt-cap/LED.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_LED_v5.3.1_INDC2030i_SSP2 - Very Low Emissions_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_LED_v5.3.1_SSP2 - Very Low Emissions_v2.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_LED_v5.3.1_baseline_1000f_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP1_v5.3.1_INDC2030i_SSP1 - Low Emissions_a_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP1_v5.3.1_INDC2030i_SSP1 - Low Emissions_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP1_v5.3.1_INDC2030i_SSP1 - Very Low Emissions_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP1_v5.3.1_SSP1 - Low Emissions_a_v2.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP1_v5.3.1_SSP1 - Low Emissions_v2.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP1_v5.3.1_SSP1 - Very Low Emissions_v2.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP1_v5.3.1_baseline_1000f_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP2_v5.3.1_INDC2030i_SSP2 - Low Emissions_a_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP2_v5.3.1_INDC2030i_SSP2 - Low Emissions_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP2_v5.3.1_NPIREF_price_cap_5$_bkp_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP2_v5.3.1_NPiREF_SSP2 - Low Overshootf_price_cap_5$_bkp_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP2_v5.3.1_NPiREF_SSP2 - Low Overshootf_v3.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP2_v5.3.1_NPiREF_SSP2 - Medium-Low Emissionsf_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP2_v5.3.1_NPiREF_v10.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP2_v5.3.1_SSP2 - Low Emissions_a_v2.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP2_v5.3.1_SSP2 - Low Emissions_v2.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP2_v5.3.1_SSP2 - Low Overshoot_v2.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP2_v5.3.1_SSP2 - Medium Emissions_a_v2.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP2_v5.3.1_SSP2 - Medium Emissions_v2.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP2_v5.3.1_SSP2 - Medium-Low Emissions_v2.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP2_v5.3.1_baselineS_10_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP2_v5.3.1_baselineS_110_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP2_v5.3.1_baselineS_15_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP2_v5.3.1_baselineS_20_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP2_v5.3.1_baselineS_25_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP2_v5.3.1_baselineS_50_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP2_v5.3.1_baselineS_5_v3.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP2_v5.3.1_baseline_1000f_v2.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP2_v5.3.1_npiref2035_low_dem_scen2_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP3_v5.3.1_baseline_1000f_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP4_v5.3.1_NPi2030_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP4_v5.3.1_NPiREF_SSP4 - Low Overshootf_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP4_v5.3.1_NPiREF_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP4_v5.3.1_SSP4 - Low Overshoot_v2.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP4_v5.3.1_baseline_1000f_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP5_v5.3.1_NPi2030_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP5_v5.3.1_NPiREF_SSP5 - Low Overshootf_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP5_v5.3.1_NPiREF_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP5_v5.3.1_SSP5 - Low Overshoot_v2.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP5_v5.3.1_baseline2055_low_dem_scen_v1.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP5_v5.3.1_baseline2060_low_dem_scen_v2.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R12/price-emission/SSP_SSP5_v5.3.1_baseline_1000f_v2.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R14/config.yaml
message_ix_models/data/transport/R14/disutility.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R14/freight-activity.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R14/freight-mode-share-ref.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R14/ldv-activity.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R14/load-factor-ldv.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/R14/pdt-cap-ref.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/ikarus/availability.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/ikarus/fix_cost.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/ikarus/input.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/ikarus/inv_cost.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/ikarus/technical_lifetime.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/ikarus/var_cost.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/ma3t/attitude.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/ma3t/driver.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/ma3t/population.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/migrate/report.yaml
message_ix_models/data/transport/migrate/set.yaml
message_ix_models/data/transport/mode-share/debug.csv
message_ix_models/data/transport/mode-share/default.csv
message_ix_models/data/ue-shares/trp_gas0.05.xlsx
message_ix_models/data/ue-shares/trp_gas0.05_elec0.9.xlsx
message_ix_models/data/unit/snapshot-0.yaml
message_ix_models/data/unit/snapshot-1.yaml
message_ix_models/data/water/.gitattributes
message_ix_models/data/water/config.yaml
message_ix_models/data/water/set.yaml
message_ix_models/data/water/ssp.yaml
message_ix_models/data/water/technology.yaml
message_ix_models/data/year/A.yaml
message_ix_models/data/year/B.yaml
message_ix_models/model/__init__.py
message_ix_models/model/bare.py
message_ix_models/model/build.py
message_ix_models/model/cli.py
message_ix_models/model/config.py
message_ix_models/model/data.py
message_ix_models/model/disutility.py
message_ix_models/model/emissions.py
message_ix_models/model/macro.py
message_ix_models/model/snapshot.py
message_ix_models/model/structure.py
message_ix_models/model/workflow.py
message_ix_models/model/buildings/__init__.py
message_ix_models/model/buildings/build.py
message_ix_models/model/buildings/cli.py
message_ix_models/model/buildings/rc_afofi.py
message_ix_models/model/buildings/report.py
message_ix_models/model/buildings/sturm.py
message_ix_models/model/material/__init__.py
message_ix_models/model/material/build.py
message_ix_models/model/material/cli.py
message_ix_models/model/material/data_aluminum.py
message_ix_models/model/material/data_ammonia_new.py
message_ix_models/model/material/data_cement.py
message_ix_models/model/material/data_generic.py
message_ix_models/model/material/data_methanol.py
message_ix_models/model/material/data_petro.py
message_ix_models/model/material/data_power_sector.py
message_ix_models/model/material/data_steel.py
message_ix_models/model/material/data_util.py
message_ix_models/model/material/util.py
message_ix_models/model/material/material_demand/material_demand_calc.py
message_ix_models/model/material/report/Historical Power Sector Stock Reporting-.ipynb
message_ix_models/model/material/report/__init__.py
message_ix_models/model/material/report/config.py
message_ix_models/model/material/report/reporter_utils.py
message_ix_models/model/material/report/reporting.py
message_ix_models/model/material/report/run_reporting.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/CHN_IND.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/__init__.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/base.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/build.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/callback.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/cli.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/config.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/constraint.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/data.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/demand.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/disutility.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/emission.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/factor.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/freight.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/groups.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/ikarus.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/key.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/ldv.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/migrate.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/operator.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/other.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/passenger.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/plot.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/policy.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/report.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/roadmap.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/structure.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/testing.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/ustimes_ma3t.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/util.py
message_ix_models/model/transport/workflow.py
message_ix_models/model/water/__init__.py
message_ix_models/model/water/build.py
message_ix_models/model/water/cli.py
message_ix_models/model/water/report.py
message_ix_models/model/water/utils.py
message_ix_models/model/water/data/__init__.py
message_ix_models/model/water/data/demands.py
message_ix_models/model/water/data/infrastructure.py
message_ix_models/model/water/data/irrigation.py
message_ix_models/model/water/data/water_for_ppl.py
message_ix_models/model/water/data/water_supply.py
message_ix_models/model/water/data/pre_processing/calculate_ppl_cooling_technology_shares.R
message_ix_models/model/water/data/pre_processing/desalination.R
message_ix_models/model/water/data/pre_processing/generate_water_constraints.R
message_ix_models/model/water/data/pre_processing/generate_water_constraints_monthly.R
message_ix_models/model/water/data/pre_processing/groundwater_harmonize.R
message_ix_models/model/water/data/pre_processing/hydro_agg_basin.py
message_ix_models/model/water/data/pre_processing/hydro_agg_raster.py
message_ix_models/model/water/data/pre_processing/hydro_agg_spatial.R
message_ix_models/project/__init__.py
message_ix_models/project/transport_futures.py
message_ix_models/project/advance/__init__.py
message_ix_models/project/advance/data.py
message_ix_models/project/circeular/__init__.py
message_ix_models/project/circeular/cli.py
message_ix_models/project/digsy/__init__.py
message_ix_models/project/digsy/structure.py
message_ix_models/project/edits/__init__.py
message_ix_models/project/edits/cli.py
message_ix_models/project/edits/structure.py
message_ix_models/project/engage/__init__.py
message_ix_models/project/engage/workflow.py
message_ix_models/project/gea/__init__.py
message_ix_models/project/gea/data.py
message_ix_models/project/geidco/__init__.py
message_ix_models/project/geidco/run_baseline.py
message_ix_models/project/navigate/__init__.py
message_ix_models/project/navigate/cli.py
message_ix_models/project/navigate/report.py
message_ix_models/project/navigate/workflow.py
message_ix_models/project/navigate/wp2/__init__.py
message_ix_models/project/navigate/wp2/util.py
message_ix_models/project/shape/__init__.py
message_ix_models/project/shape/data.py
message_ix_models/project/ssp/__init__.py
message_ix_models/project/ssp/cli.py
message_ix_models/project/ssp/data.py
message_ix_models/project/ssp/structure.py
message_ix_models/project/ssp/transport.py
message_ix_models/project/ssp/script/__init__.py
message_ix_models/project/ssp/script/scenarios/low.py
message_ix_models/project/ssp/script/scenarios/very_low.py
message_ix_models/project/ssp/script/util/__init__.py
message_ix_models/project/ssp/script/util/functions.py
message_ix_models/project/ssp/script/util/shares.py
message_ix_models/report/__init__.py
message_ix_models/report/cli.py
message_ix_models/report/compat.py
message_ix_models/report/computations.py
message_ix_models/report/config.py
message_ix_models/report/key.py
message_ix_models/report/operator.py
message_ix_models/report/plot.py
message_ix_models/report/sim.py
message_ix_models/report/util.py
message_ix_models/report/legacy/ENGAGE_SSP2_v417_tables.py
message_ix_models/report/legacy/__init__.py
message_ix_models/report/legacy/default_tables.py
message_ix_models/report/legacy/iamc_report_hackathon.py
message_ix_models/report/legacy/iamc_tree.py
message_ix_models/report/legacy/postprocess.py
message_ix_models/report/legacy/pp_utils.py
message_ix_models/testing/__init__.py
message_ix_models/testing/check.py
message_ix_models/testing/cli.py
message_ix_models/tests/__init__.py
message_ix_models/tests/test_cli.py
message_ix_models/tests/test_import.py
message_ix_models/tests/test_report.py
message_ix_models/tests/test_testing.py
message_ix_models/tests/test_tools.py
message_ix_models/tests/test_util.py
message_ix_models/tests/test_workflow.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/__init__.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/test_bare.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/test_build.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/test_buildings.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/test_cli.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/test_config.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/test_disutility.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/test_emissions.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/test_macro.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/test_snapshot.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/test_structure.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/test_workflow.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/material/__init__.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/material/test_build.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/material/test_data_aluminum.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/material/test_data_cement.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/material/test_data_steel.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/material/test_data_util.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/material/test_report.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/material/test_reporter_utils.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/material/test_run_reporting.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/transport/__init__.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/transport/test_base.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/transport/test_build.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/transport/test_callback.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/transport/test_config.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/transport/test_data.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/transport/test_demand.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/transport/test_emission.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/transport/test_factor.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/transport/test_ikarus.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/transport/test_ldv.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/transport/test_migrate.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/transport/test_operator.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/transport/test_report.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/transport/test_ustimes_ma3t.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/transport/test_util.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/transport/test_workflow.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/water/__init__.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/water/test_build.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/water/test_report.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/water/test_utils.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/water/data/__init__.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/water/data/test_demands.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/water/data/test_infrastructure.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/water/data/test_irrigation.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/water/data/test_water_data.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/water/data/test_water_for_ppl.py
message_ix_models/tests/model/water/data/test_water_supply.py
message_ix_models/tests/project/__init__.py
message_ix_models/tests/project/test_advance.py
message_ix_models/tests/project/test_digsy.py
message_ix_models/tests/project/test_edits.py
message_ix_models/tests/project/test_gea.py
message_ix_models/tests/project/test_navigate.py
message_ix_models/tests/project/test_shape.py
message_ix_models/tests/project/test_ssp.py
message_ix_models/tests/project/circeular/__init__.py
message_ix_models/tests/project/navigate/__init__.py
message_ix_models/tests/project/navigate/test_wp2_util.py
message_ix_models/tests/project/ssp/__init__.py
message_ix_models/tests/project/ssp/test_transport.py
message_ix_models/tests/report/__init__.py
message_ix_models/tests/report/test_compat.py
message_ix_models/tests/report/test_config.py
message_ix_models/tests/report/test_legacy.py
message_ix_models/tests/report/test_operator.py
message_ix_models/tests/tools/__init__.py
message_ix_models/tests/tools/test_exo_data.py
message_ix_models/tests/tools/test_gfei.py
message_ix_models/tests/tools/test_iamc.py
message_ix_models/tests/tools/test_inter_pipe.py
message_ix_models/tests/tools/test_wb.py
message_ix_models/tests/tools/costs/__init__.py
message_ix_models/tests/tools/costs/test_decay.py
message_ix_models/tests/tools/costs/test_gdp.py
message_ix_models/tests/tools/costs/test_projections.py
message_ix_models/tests/tools/costs/test_regional_differentiation.py
message_ix_models/tests/tools/costs/test_scenario.py
message_ix_models/tests/tools/iea/__init__.py
message_ix_models/tests/tools/iea/test_eei.py
message_ix_models/tests/tools/iea/test_web.py
message_ix_models/tests/util/__init__.py
message_ix_models/tests/util/test_cache.py
message_ix_models/tests/util/test_click.py
message_ix_models/tests/util/test_common.py
message_ix_models/tests/util/test_config.py
message_ix_models/tests/util/test_context.py
message_ix_models/tests/util/test_importlib.py
message_ix_models/tests/util/test_logging.py
message_ix_models/tests/util/test_node.py
message_ix_models/tests/util/test_scenarioinfo.py
message_ix_models/tests/util/test_sdmx.py
message_ix_models/tests/util/test_slurm.py
message_ix_models/tools/__init__.py
message_ix_models/tools/add_AFOLU_CO2_accounting.py
message_ix_models/tools/add_CO2_emission_constraint.py
message_ix_models/tools/add_FFI_CO2_accounting.py
message_ix_models/tools/add_alternative_TCE_accounting.py
message_ix_models/tools/add_budget.py
message_ix_models/tools/add_emission_trajectory.py
message_ix_models/tools/add_tax_emission.py
message_ix_models/tools/exo_data.py
message_ix_models/tools/gfei.py
message_ix_models/tools/iamc.py
message_ix_models/tools/messagev.py
message_ix_models/tools/policy.py
message_ix_models/tools/remove_emission_bounds.py
message_ix_models/tools/update_h2_blending.py
message_ix_models/tools/wb.py
message_ix_models/tools/costs/__init__.py
message_ix_models/tools/costs/config.py
message_ix_models/tools/costs/decay.py
message_ix_models/tools/costs/demo.py
message_ix_models/tools/costs/gdp.py
message_ix_models/tools/costs/projections.py
message_ix_models/tools/costs/regional_differentiation.py
message_ix_models/tools/costs/scenario.py
message_ix_models/tools/iea/__init__.py
message_ix_models/tools/iea/eei.py
message_ix_models/tools/iea/web.py
message_ix_models/tools/inter_pipe/__init__.py
message_ix_models/util/__init__.py
message_ix_models/util/_convert_units.py
message_ix_models/util/_dataclasses.py
message_ix_models/util/_logging.py
message_ix_models/util/cache.py
message_ix_models/util/click.py
message_ix_models/util/common.py
message_ix_models/util/config.py
message_ix_models/util/context.py
message_ix_models/util/genno.py
message_ix_models/util/graphviz.py
message_ix_models/util/importlib.py
message_ix_models/util/ixmp.py
message_ix_models/util/migrate.py
message_ix_models/util/node.py
message_ix_models/util/pooch.py
message_ix_models/util/pycountry.py
message_ix_models/util/scenarioinfo.py
message_ix_models/util/sdmx.py
message_ix_models/util/slurm.py
message_ix_models/util/compat/__init__.py
message_ix_models/util/compat/message_data/__init__.py
message_ix_models/util/compat/message_data/calibrate_UE_gr_to_demand.py
message_ix_models/util/compat/message_data/calibrate_UE_share_constraints.py
message_ix_models/util/compat/message_data/calibrate_vre.py
message_ix_models/util/compat/message_data/change_technology_lifetime.py
message_ix_models/util/compat/message_data/check_scenario_fix_and_inv_cost.py
message_ix_models/util/compat/message_data/get_historical_years.py
message_ix_models/util/compat/message_data/get_nodes.py
message_ix_models/util/compat/message_data/get_optimization_years.py
message_ix_models/util/compat/message_data/manual_updates_ENGAGE_SSP2_v417_to_v418.py
message_ix_models/util/compat/message_data/update_fix_and_inv_cost.py
message_ix_models/util/compat/message_data/update_h2_blending.py
message_ix_models/util/compat/message_data/utilities.py